# Layouts

-   Layouts determine how the user interface in your app looks.
-   Elements in the layout are created using View and ViewGroup objects.

## View and ViewGroup

-   **View**: Displays something the user can interact with.
    > **Widgets**: are specialized types of View like `Button` or `TextView`
-   **ViewGroup**: Invisible container that organizes the layout for View and other ViewGroup.
    > **Layout**: is a special type of ViewGroup like `LinearLayout` or `ConstraintLayout`

## Creating Layouts

-   Each layout file must contain exactly one root element, which must be a View or ViewGroup object.
-   You can add additional layout objects or widgets as child elements

## Layout Attributes

-   Every View and ViewGroup object supports their own variety of XML attributes
-   These attributes are inherited by any View extending those classes

## Layout Parameters

-   Every ViewGroup class implements a nested class that extends ViewGroup.LayoutParams.
-   This subclass contains property types that define the size and position for each child view

## Types Of Layouts

`setContentView` is a method used to specify the layout for an **_activity_**

```java
setContentView(R.layout.activity_main);
```

-   **Linear Layouts**: arranges its child views in a single line either horizontally or vertically.
-   **Relative Layouts**: position child views relative to each other or to the parent.
-   **Constraint Layouts**: allows you to create complex layouts using a system of constraints to position and size views.

## Linear Layout

Linear layout arrange the layout in a **_single row or column_**

```xml
<LinearLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent"
    tools:context=".MainActivity">
</LinearLayout>
```

## Relative Layout

We arrange elements relative to other using there ids

```xml
<RelativeLayout ...>

    <TextView
        android:id="@+id/text1"
        .../>

    <TextView
        android:id="@+id/text2"
        android:layout_below="@+id/text1"
        ... />

</RelativeLayout>
```

## Constraint Layout

**Constraint Layout** use constraints to define the position and size of child views relative to each other and the parent layout

```xml
<TextView
    ...
    app:layout_constraintBottom_toBottomOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintEnd_toEndOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintStart_toStartOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintTop_toTopOf="parent" />
```
