# Lifecycle

-   `onCreate()`
    -   called when the activity is first created.
    -   typically used for one-time initialization
-   `onStart()`
    -   called when the activity becomes visible to the user.
    -   used for tasks when activity becomes visible
-   `onResume()`
    -   called when the activity is ready to interact with the user
    -   used for tasks when the activity is in the foreground
-   `onPause()`
    -   called when the activity is going into the background
    -   used to pause processes while the activity is not visible
-   `onStop()`
    -   called when the activity is no longer visible to the user.
    -   used to release resources and other cleanup tasks
-   `onDestroy()`
    -   called when the activity is being destroyed
    -   used for final cleanup.
-   `onRestart()`
    -   called when the activity is being restarted (after being stopped)
    -   used to re-initialize resources that were released in `onStop()`

# Intents

An Intent is used for communication between different activities.

## Explicit Intents

**Explicit intent**: specify the component to be invoked explicitly: `Intent intent = new Intent(this, SecondActivity.class);`

```java
protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    ...
    Button btn = findViewById(R.id.btn);
    btn.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener() {
        @Override
        public void onClick(View v) {
            goToSecondActivity();
        }
    });
}
public void goToSecondActivity() {
    Intent intent = new Intent(this, SecondActivity.class);
    startActivity(intent);
}
```

## Implicit Intents

**Implicit Intent**: declares a general action to be performed, allowing the system to determine the best component to handle the request: `Intent intent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_VIEW, webpage);`

```java
protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    ...
    Button btn2 = findViewById(R.id.openBrowser);
    btn2.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener() {
        @Override
        public void onClick(View v) {
            openWebPage();
        }
    });
}
public void openWebPage() {
    Uri webpage = Uri.parse("https://www.google.com");
    Intent intent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_VIEW, webpage);
    startActivity(intent);
}
```

# Manifest

The Manifest file is a crucial configuration file in an Android application.

-   it declares the **components** of your application, including activities, services, broadcast receivers, and content providers.
-   specifies the permissions that the application requires to access certain features or data on the device.
-   contains essential metadata about the application, such as the app's name, icon, version, and description
-   it provides additional properties for app components, such as intent filters for activities and receivers, or configuration details for services.
-   It includes default configurations and settings for the application, such as the default activity that should be launched when the app starts.

# Gradle

Gradle build files defines the build logic for the application.

> The **module build file** is the file we mostly edit

# Lucky Number App

-   We **pass** data with `putExtra()`
-   We **receive** the data with `getIntent()`

```java
// Explicit Intent
Intent i = new Intent(getApplicationContext(), SecondActivity.class);
// Passing the name to second activity
i.putExtra("name", userName);
```

```java
// Receiving the data from Main Activity
Intent i = getIntent();
String userName = i.getStringExtra("name");
```
