# Classes Objects

- **Initializing Block** is a block of code within a class that is executed when an instance of the class is created. It's usefull when we have multiple constructors so it insures to be executed no matter witch constructor is called
    
    ```java
    public class MyClass {
        // Instance variable
        private int value;
        // Instance initialization block
        {
            // Initialization code
            value = 10;
        }
    }
    ```
    
    > Instance initialization blocks are defined within a class without the use of any keyword
    
    - **static initializer** are executed only once,at the first object instanciate:
        
        ```
        class Obj  {
            static {
                System.out.println("hola");
            }
        }
        public class Main {
            public static void main(String[] args) {
                Obj child1 = new Obj();
                Obj child2 = new Obj();
                // print "hola" only once
            }
        }
        ```
        

# Types of Classes

- **Concrete classes** is a class that can be instantiated, meaning you can create objects (instances) of that class.
- **Nested classes** are often used when a class is closely tied to the outer class's instance
    
    > Inner class instanciation:  
    > `Discount discount = new Card().new Discount(0.15);`
    
- **Final classes** are classes we can not extend (`final`)
- **POJO classes** (Plain Old Java Object) is a Java class that adheres to a set of conventions and best practices:
    - it should'nt extend any other classes
    - implement interfaces or annotations
- **Anonymous classes** is a class that is defined without a name. They are used for quick implementations of interfaces or abstract class
    
    ```
    Greeting greeting = new Greeting() {};
    ```
    
    > `Greeting` here, need to refer to either an interface or a abstrat class
    
- **Abstract classes**: is a class we can not instanciate, but are meant to be extended
    
    > They often have abstract method to force extended class to implement
    

# Interfaces

An **interface** is a collection of *abstract methods* that a class implementing the interface must provide.  
Interfaces also allow the declaration of **constants** (fields that are implicitly *public*, *static*, and *final*) and can include **default and static methods**.

```
public interface MyInterface {
    // Abstract method
    void myMethod();

    // Constant
    int MY_CONSTANT = 42;

    // Default method
    default void defaultMethod() {
        System.out.println("Default implementation");
    }

    // Static method
    static void staticMethod() {
        System.out.println("Static method");
    }
}
```

> *default* method method can be overridden

# Inheritance

- `instanceof` evaluate the instance of the object
    
    ```
        Parent obj1 = new Child();
        if (obj1 instanceof Child) {
            Child obj2 = (Child) obj1; // we need to cast
            obj2.foo(); // ... to access Child method
        }
    ```
    
- `super` refer to the parent class

# Polymorphism and Final Keyword

Polymorphism means many form (of behiaviour)

- **Dynamic binding** is a concept where the method that will be called is determined at runtime.
    
    ```java
    class Shape {
        void draw() {
            System.out.println("Drawing a shape");
        }
    }
    class Circle extends Shape {
        @Override
        void draw() {
            System.out.println("Drawing a circle");
        }
    }
    ```
    
    ```java
    Shape shape = new Circle();
    shape.draw();  // Dynamic binding, calls draw() from Circle	
    // print "Drawing a circle"
    ```
    

> **Override vs Overload**:
> 
> - *Override* is when we override a method from a parent class
> - *Overload* is when we implement a method with the same name but with different parameters (signature)

> **Final variable**: their value can not be change once it has been assigned: `final int x = 10;`

> **Final** and **Abstract** can't be assigned together. They are incompatible

# Static Keyword

The **static** keyword is used to declare elements that belong to the class rather than to instances of the class.

```
class User {
    private static int counter;
    {
        ++counter;
    }
    public int getCounter() {
        return counter;
    }
}
```

```
User user1 = new User();
User user2 = new User();
System.out.println(user1.getCounter()); // 2
```

> The use of static members is consider a bad practice as it violate design principle

> **Constant** properties are commonly use with `final` and `static` modifiers together. This combination indicates that the variable is a constant (unchangeable) and that it is associated with the class rather than with instances of the class.

## Static import

The static import statement allows you to use the static members of a class without qualifying them with the class name.

```
import static java.lang.Math.PI;

public class Circle {
    double calculateArea(double radius) {
        return PI * radius * radius;
    }
}
```

# Encapsulation

- **Protected** modifier are accessible within the same package or from a child class.
- **Default** modifier (without modifier keyword) are accessible only within the same package

> `protected` and `default` modifier are not used often

> When overiding a method, we can't narrow access level, but we can extend access. For exemple, if the parent method is `private`, we can overide with `public` access.

# Object JNI

JNI (Java Native Interface) is a framework that allows Java code running in JVM to interact with native applications and libraries written in other language.

> The `native` keyword is specifically used in the context of native methods that are implemented outside the Java language, and it indicates that the method body is provided by a native, non-Java source.