# Primitive types and variables

## Java Types:

- Primitive Types:
    - Integers
    - Floating-point numbers
    - Booleans
    - Characters
- Reference Types
    - Arrays
    - Classes
    - Annotations
    - Interfaces
    - Enumarations

> Why choose primitive over classes:  
> The only reason is for *performance*

## Primitive Wrapper Types

- They are classes that provide a way to represent primitive data types (such as int, char, boolean, etc.) as objects.
- They are used to work with primitive types in situations where objects are required,
- List of Primitive Wrapper Types:
    - Byte: Represents a byte value.
    - Short: Represents a short value.
    - Integer: Represents an int value.
    - Long: Represents a long value.
    - Float: Represents a float value.
    - Double: Represents a double value.
    - Character: Represents a char value.
    - Boolean: Represents a boolean value.

> For example, if you need to store an integer in a collection like an ArrayList, you can't use the primitive type int directly, but you can use Integer, which is the wrapper class for int.

```java
// Autoboxing: converting inteter to Integer
Integer intValue = 42;

// Unboxing: converting Integer to inteter
int primitiveValue = intValue;
```

> The process of converting a primitive type to its corresponding wrapper class is called **autoboxing**, and the reverse process is called **unboxing**.

# Primitive Type and Variables

## Default Types:

- `double` is the default type for floating types
    
    > we need to explicitly specify if it's a float with `f`  
    > `float f = 1.2f;`
    
- integer is the default type for whole numbers
    
    > we need to explicitly specify if it's a long with L  
    > `long l2 = 2_000_000_000_000L`
    

## Overflow

- if we cast bigger numbers it result an overflow
    
    ```
    byte b2 = (byte)128; // it result an overflow
    System.out.println(b2); // -128 
    ```
    

## Number Systems

- Those all result the decimal number 152:
    
    ```
    int dec = 152;
    int bin = 0b10011000;
    int oct = 0230;
    int hex = 0x98;
    ```
    

## Arrays

- declaration:  
    `int[] arr` or `int arr[]`
- initialization with size:  
    `arr = new int[10];`
    
    > Primitive data types in Java cannot be null. Primitives are simple data types that hold raw values and don't have the concept of being "empty" or "null" like objects do.
    
- declare array variables:  
    `int[] arr = {3, 2, 1}`

### Multidimensional Arrays:

```java
int[][] matrix = {
        {1, 2, 3},
        {4, 5, 6}
};
```

- we can access multi-dimensional array like so:  
    `matrix[0][2] // 3`