# Type Erasure

Type erasure is a process where the compiler removes or "erases" the generic type information from a program during compilation. The primary purpose of type erasure is to provide compatibility with code written before the introduction of generics and to ensure backward compatibility with non-generic code.

- Compile-Time Type Checking:
	- Generics in Java were introduced to provide stronger type-checking at compile time. With generics, you can declare classes, interfaces, and methods that operate on objects of specified types.

- Type Erasure Process:
	- During the compilation process, the compiler replaces generic types with their raw types and removes the type parameters. 
	- For example, if you have a generic class like `List<T>`, the compiler replaces it with the raw type `List`.

- Raw Types:
	- Raw types are the non-generic versions of generic classes or interfaces. They lack the type information for the generic parameters.
	- For example, `List` is a raw type resulting from the type erasure of `List<T>`.

- Compatibility:
	- Type erasure allows Java to maintain compatibility with existing code that was written before the introduction of generics.
	- Non-generic code (prior to Java 5) can interact with generic code seamlessly due to type erasure.

- Limitation:
	- The downside of type erasure is that, at runtime, the JVM has no knowledge of the generic types used in the program.
	- The information about generic types is not available for reflection or runtime type queries.

## Example 1:

```java
// Before type erasure
List<String> stringList = new ArrayList<>();
stringList.add("Hello");

// After type erasure (conceptual representation)
List rawList = new ArrayList();
rawList.add("Hello");

// At runtime, the actual type parameter (String) is erased
```

> It's essential to be aware of its implications, especially when dealing with reflection and scenarios where runtime type information is required.

## Example 2:

Type Erasure is dangerous when we assign a generic type to a non-generic type
> **Always use generics with collection** for type safety

```java
// Creating a list of strings
List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();

// Adding strings to the list
addToNames(names, "Name 1");
addToNames(names, "Name 2");
System.out.println(names); // [Name 1, Name 2]

// Incorrectly adding an Integer to the list due to type erasure
incorrectAddToNames(names, 100);
System.out.println(names); // [Name 1, Name 2, 100]

// Attempting to retrieve a String from a position where an Integer was added
String aname = names.get(2); // ClassCastException at runtime
}

// Correct method that adds strings to the list of strings
private static void addToNames(List<String> names, String s) {
names.add(s);
}

// Incorrect method that adds any object to the list (due to type erasure)
private static void incorrectAddToNames(List list, Integer i) {
list.add(i);
}
```
> the absence of generic type information (`List` instead of `List<String>`) for `incorrectAddToNames()`  allows adding elements of any type to the list. This is a consequence of type erasure, where the actual type information is lost at runtime. The code compiles successfully, but it leads to runtime errors when attempting to use the elements with a specific type expectation.